Revenue Analysis: What are the top-selling products and categories? What is the average order value? What is the revenue contribution by product category and individual products?

Customer Analysis: What is the demographic profile of our top customers? What is the customer acquisition cost? What is the lifetime value of a customer? What is the customer retention rate?

Marketing Analysis: Which marketing channels are driving the most traffic and conversions? What is the return on investment for each marketing channel? What is the effectiveness of our marketing campaigns?

Operational Analysis: What is the average order fulfillment time? What is the rate of return or refund requests? What is the inventory turnover rate?

Expansion Analysis: Which regions have the highest sales? Which regions have the most potential for growth? What are the demographic trends in these regions?

Competitive Analysis: Who are our main competitors? What are they doing differently? What are the industry trends?

Business Success Metrics: How the key performance indicators are applied?

Some other job specific questions can be:-

Which region is generating the highest revenue, and which region is generating the lowest?

What is the monthly trend of revenue, which months have faced the biggest increase/decrease?

Which months generated the most revenue? Is there a seasonality in sales?

Who are the top customers and how much do they contribute to the total revenue? Is the business
dependent on these customers or is the customer base diversified?


Questions of interest to the CMO


What is the percentage of customers who are repeating their orders? Are they ordering the same
products or different?

For the repeat customers, how long does it take for them to place the next order after being delivered
the previous one?

What revenue is being generated from the customers who have ordered more than once?

Who are the customers that have repeated the most? How much are they contributing to revenue?